We just set a record in this building, folks, so that’s good news. That’s fantastic. Thank you. I love Michigan. with your help we are going to win and we are going to win big. we are going to bring jobs back to our country. It’s going to be a victory for the people, a victory for the wage earner, the factory work. Remember this, a big, big victory for the factory worker. They haven’t had those victories for a long time, a victory for every citizen and for all of the people whose voices have not been heard for many, many years. They’re going to be heard again.

It’ll be a win for the voters. Not for the, pundits, not for the journalists, not for the lobbyists, not for the global special interests. It’s going to be your victory. These are hard times for many in this country. Perhaps you can tell by the way I’m dressed, just got off the plane. It was actually incredible, the spirit of the people is incredible. The devastation, likewise, they’ve never seen anything like it, but the spirit of the people is incredible. And honestly, He ought to get off the golf course and get down there. 

We mourn for the lives lost, and we pledge our help, comfort, and support to every last person in need. To the people, we are with you, and we will always be with you. In my visit, I saw not only the suffering of our people, but also their strength, courage, and really unbeatable spirit. Their spirit will overcome. We have a lot to overcome in our country, especially the fact that our jobs are being taken away from us. And we’re not going to allow it to happen. It’s an amazing spirit that we will need to rebuild. It’s that strength that we’re going to need to create the new American future our children so much deserve.

In this new… Thank you. Thank you very much. In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the workforce. And if I’m not elected President, that will never happen. Believe me, they’re talking to you, they’re playing you, but believe me, you know the answer. and how your businesses and plants have been ripped out of your land. And I’ve been doing it for four years . Other people started talking about it last week. They’re not going to do anything about it. 

jobs and opportunity. Children stuck in failing government schools will be able to attend the school of their choice. Government will become lean, effective, responsible, and honest. and our children will be safe, very, very safe.

Law and order will be restored. And the poorest places in our country will know safety and peace again. American values and cultures will be cherished, and I mean cherished, and celebrated once again. But to achieve this new future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies over and over and over again. No group has been more harmed. No group, no group. They could not have done a better job. It’s a disgrace.  their policies have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, and broken homes. It’s time to hold politicians accountable for what they have done to these communities. At what point do we say, “Enough”? At what point do we say, “Enough”? It’s time to hold failed leaders accountable for their results, not just their empty words over and over again. Number one. This is the legacy of the  politicians who have run this city. This is the result of the policy agenda embraced by them


The only way to change results is to change leadership. We can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created our problems in the first place. A new future requires brand new leadership.

To those I say the following, “What do you have to lose by trying something new?” What do you have to lose?

I say it again, “What do you have to lose?” Look, what do you have to lose? You’re living in poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58% of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose? 

We must do better as a country. I refuse to believe that the future must be like the past, it won’t be. Our future is going to be a great future for everyone, for everyone. workers of all colors will get priority for jobs in their own country, which is about time.  Many, many workers in our country are making substantially less money today in real wages than they made 18 years ago. They’re working two jobs instead of one, they’re working much harder as they get older and it’s supposed to be the opposite. We’re going to stop it. We’re going to create great jobs and we’re going to get the wages up.
