temple of Han




• To steal the shimmering Eye of Han—

that was no trick for the wily Terran.

• To hand back the great green Jewel,

to give his body to priestly torture—

that was asking much of a space-rogue.





IN THE NIP-AND-TUCK business of keeping himself alive, Briar Kelly had not yet been able to shed his disguise. The adventure had turned out rather more ruggedly than it had started. He had not bargained for so much hell.

Up to the moment he had entered the queer dark temple at North City, the disguise had served him well. He had been one with the Hans; no one had looked at him twice. Then, once inside the temple, he was alone and disguise was unnecessary.

It was an oddly impressive place. A Gothic web of trusses supported the ceiling; alcoves along the walls were crammed with bric-a-brac. Red and green lamps cast an illumination which was stifled and absorbed by black drapes.

Walking slowly down the central nave, every nerve tingling, Kelly had approached the tall black mirror at the far end, watching his looming reflection with hypnotic fascination. There were limpid depths beyond, and Kelly would have looked more closely had he not seen the jewel.

It was a ball of cool green fire resting on a black velvet cushion. With marvelling fingers Kelly had lifted it, turned it over and over—and then tumult had broken loose. The red and green lights flickered; an alarm horn brayed like a crazy bull. Vengeful priests appeared in the alcoves as if by magic, and the disguise had become a liability. The tubular black cloak constricted his legs as he ran—back along the aisle, down the shabby steps, through the foul back alleys to his air-boat. Now as he crouched low over the controls, sweat beaded up under the white greasepaint, and his skin itched and crawled.

Ten feet below, the salt-crusted mudflats fleeted astern. Dirty yellow rushes whipped the hull. Pressing an elbow to his hip Kelly felt the hard shape of the jewel. The sensation aroused mixed feelings, apprehension predominating. He dropped the boat even closer to the ground. "Five minutes of this, I'll be out of radar range!’ thought Kelly. “Back at Bucktown, I’m just one among fifty thousand. They can’t very well locate me, unless Herli talks, or Mapes • • •

He hazarded a glance at the rear-vision, plate. North City could still be seen, an exaggerated Mont St. Michel jutting up from the dreary salt-marsh. Misty exhalations blurred the detail; it faded into the sky, finally dropped below the horizon. Kelly eased up the nose of the boat, rose tangentially from the surface, aiming into Magra Taratempos, the hot white sun.

The atmosphere thinned, the sky deepened to black, stars came out. There was old Sol, a yellow star hanging between Sadal Suud and Sadal Melik in Aquarius —only thirty light years to home—

Kelly heard a faint swishing sound The light changed, white to red. He blinked, looked around in bewilderment.

Magra Taratempos had disappeared. Low to the left a giant red sun hulked above the horizon; below, the salt marshes swam in a new claret light.

In amazement Kelly gazed from- red sun to planet, back tip across the heavens where Magra Taratempos had hung only a moment before.

"I’ve gone crazy,” said Kelly. “Unless • • •”

TWO OR THREE MONTHS before, a peculiar rumor had circulated Buck-town. For lack of better entertainment, the sophisticates of the city had made a joke of the story, until it finally grew stale and was no more heard.

Kelly, who worked as computer switchman at the astrogation station, was well-acquainted with the rumor. It went to the effect that a Han priest, dour and intense under his black cloak, had been tripped into the marsh by a drunken pollen-collector. Like a turtle the priest had shoved his white face out from under the hood of his cloak, and rasped in the pidgin of the ^planet: “You abuse the priest of Han; you mock us and the name of the Great God. Time is short. The Seventh Year is at hand, and you godless Earth-things will seek to flee, but there will be nowhere for you to go.”

Such had been the tale. Kelly remembered the pleased excitement which had fluttered from tongue to tongue. He grimaced, examined the sky in new apprehension.

The facts were before his eyes, undeniable. Magra Taratempos had vanished. In a different quarter of the sky a new sun had appeared.

Careless of radar tracing, he nosed up and broke entirely clear of the atmosphere. The stellar patterns had changed. Blackness curtained half the sky, with here and there a lone spark of a star or the wisp of a far galaxy. To the other quarter a vast blot of light stretched across the sky, a narrow elongated luminosity with a central swelling, the whole peppered with a million tiny points of light.

Kelly cut the power from his engine; the air-boat drifted. Unquestionably the luminous blot was a galaxy seen from one of its outer fringes. In ever-growing bewilderment, Kelly looked back at the planet below. To the south he could see the triangular plateau shouldering up from the swamp, and Lake Lenore near Buck-town. Below was the salt marsh, and far to the north, the rugged pile where the Hans had their city.

“Let’s face it,” said Kelly. “Unless I’m out of my mind—and I don’t think I am —the entire planet has been picked up and taken to a new sun • • • I've heard of strange things here and there, but this is it ” • • •

He felt the weight of the jewel in his pocket, and with it a new thrill of apprehension. To the best of his knowledge the Han Priests could not identify him. At Bucktown it had been Herli and Mapes who had urged him into the escapade, but they would hold their tongues. Ostensibly he had flown to his cabin along the lake-shore, and there was no one to know of his comings and goings . . . He turned the boat down toward Bucktown, and a half hour later landed at his cabin beside Lake Lenore. He had scraped the grease-paint from his face; the cloak he had jettisoned over the swamp; and the jewel weighed heavy in his pocket.

The cabin, a low flat-roofed building with aluminum walls and a glass front, appeared strange and unfamiliar in the new light. Kelly walked warily to the door* He looked right and left. No one, nothing was visible. He put his ear to the panel of the door. No sound.

He slid back the panel, stepped inside, swept the interior with-a swift glance. Everything appeared as he had left it.

He started toward the visiphone, then halted.

The jewel.

He took it from his pocket, examined it for the first time. It was a sphere the size of a golf-ball. The center shone with a green fire, decreasing toward the outer surface. He hefted it. It was unnaturally heavy. Strangely fascinating, altogether lovely. Think of it around the neck of Lynette Mason • • •

Not now. Kelly wrapped it in paper, tucked it into an empty pint jar. Behind the cabin, an old shag-bark slanted up out of the black humus and overhung the roof like a gray and tattered beach-umbrella. Kelly dug a hole under one of the arched roots, buried the jewel.

Returning to the cabin, he walked to the visiphone, reached out to call the station. While his hand was yet a foot from the buttons, the buzzer sounded • • • Kelly drew his hand back.

Better not to answer.

The buzzer sounded again—again. Kelly stood holding his breath, looking at the blank face of the screen.

Silence.

He washed the last of the grease-paint from his face, changed his clothes, ran outside, jumped into his air-boat and took off for Bucktown.

HE LANDED on the roof of the station, noting that Herli’s car was parked in its wonted slot. Suddenly he felt less puzzled and forlorn. The station with its machinery and solid Earth-style regulations projected reassurance, a sense of normality. Somehow the ingenuity and aggressive attack which had taken men to the stars would solve the present enigma.

Or would it? Ingenuity could take men through space, but ingenuity would find itself strained locating a speck of a planet a hundred thousand light-years in an unknown direction. And Kelly still had his own problem: the jewel. Into his mind’s-eye came a picture: the cabin by the lake, the dilapidated gray garasol of the shag-bark, and glowing under the root, the green eye of the sacred jewel. In the vision he saw the black-robed figure of a Han priest moving across the open space before the cabin, and he saw the flash of the dough-white face • • •.

Kelly turned a troubled glance up at the big red sun, entered the station.

The administration section was vacant; Kelly climbed the stair to the operation department.

He stopped in the doorway, surveyed the room. It covered the entire square of the upper floor. Work-benches made a circuit of the room, with windows above. A polished cylinder, the cosmoscope, came down through the ceiling, and below was the screen to catch the projection.

Four men stood by the star-index, running a tape. Herli glanced up briefly, turned back to the clicking mechanism, j Strange. Herli should have been interested, should at least have said hello.

Kelly self-consciously crossed the room. He cleared his throat. “Well—I made it. I’m back.”

“So I see,” said Herli.

Kelly fell silent. He glanced up through the window at the red sun. “What do you make of it?”

“Not the least idea. We’re running the star-tapes on the off chance it’s been registered—a last-gasp kind of hope.”

There was more silence. They had been talking before he had entered the room; Kelly sensed this from their posture.

At last Mapes said with a forced casual-ness, “Seen the news?”

“No,” said Kelly. “No, I haven’t.” There was more in Mapes’ voice, something more personal than the shift of the planet. After a moment’s hesitation he went to the visiphone, pushed the code for news.

The screen, lit, showed a view- of the swamp. Kelly leaned forward. Buried up to their necks were a dozen boys and girls from the Bucktown High-school. Crawling eagerly over them were the small three-legged salt-crabs; others popped up out of the slime, or tunnelled under toward the squirming bodies.

Kelly could not stand the screams. He reached forward—

Herli said sharply, “Leave it on!”— harder than Kelly had ever heard him speak. “The announcement is due pretty soon.”

The announcement came, in the rasping toneless pidgin of the Han priests.

“Among the outsiders is a wicked thief. He has despoiled us of the Seven-year Eye. Let him come forward for his due. Until the thief has brought the Seven-year Eye in his own hand to the sacred temple of Han, every hour one of the outsiders will be buried in the crab-warren. If the thief hangs back, all will be so dealt with, and there will be an end to the Earth-things.”

Mapes said in a tight voice, “Did you take their Seven-year Eye?”

Kelly nodded numbly. “Yes.”

Herli made a -sharp sound in his throat, turned away.

Kelly said miserably, “I don’t know what came over me. There it was—glowing like a little green moon • • • I took it.” Herli said gutturally, “Don’t just stand there.”

Kelly reached out to the visiphone, pushed buttons. The screen changed, a Han priest stared forth into Kelly’s face.

Kelly said, “I stole your jewel . . . Don’t kill any more people. I’ll bring it back to you.”

The Priest said, “Every hour until you arrive one of the Earth-things dies a wicked death.”

Kelly leaned forward, slammed off the screen with a sudden furious sweep of his hand. He turned in anger.

“Don’t stand there glaring at me! You, Herli, you told me I wouldn’t even make it into the temple! And if any of you guys had been where I was and saw that jewel like I saw it, you’d have taken it too.”

Mapes growled under his breath. Herli’s shoulders seemed to sag; he looked away. “Maybe you’re right, Briar.”

Kelly said, “Are we helpless? Why didn’t we fight when they took those twelve kids? There’s maybe a million Hans, but there’s fifty thousand of us—and they have no weapons that I know of.”

“They’ve seized the power station,” said Herli. “Without power we can’t distill water, we can’t radiate our hydroponics* We’re in a cleft stick.”

Kelly turned away. “So long, fellows.” No one answered him. He walked down the stairs, across the parking strip to his air-car. He was conscious of their eyes looking down from the window.

In, up, away. First to his cabin by the lake, under the shag-bark for the Seven-year Eye, then the arc over the planet, south to north. Then the gray fortress of North Settlement, and the dark temple in the center.

KELLY dropped the air-car directly in front of the temple. No reason now for stealth.

He climbed to the ground, looked about through the strange purple twilight which had come to the ramshackle city. A few Hans moved past, and Kelly saw the flash of their faces.

He walked slowly up the steps to the temple, paused indecisively in the doorway. There was no point in adding further provocation to his offenses. No doubt they planned to kill him; he might as well make it as easy as possible.

“Hello,” he called into the dark interior, in a voice he tried to keep firm. “Any priests in there? I’ve brought back the jewel • • •”

There was no response. Listening intently, he could hear a distant murmur. He took a few steps into the temple, peered up the nave. The muffled red and green illumination confused rather than aided his vision. He noticed a curious Irregularity to the floor. He took a step forward—another—another—he stepped on something soft. There was the flash of white below him. The floor was covered by the black-robed priests, lying flat on their faces.

The priest he had trod on made no sound. Kelly hesitated. Time was passing • • • He crammed all his doubts, fears, vacillations into a corner of his mind, strode forward, careless of where he stepped.

Down the center of the nave he walked, holding the green jewel in his hand. Ahead he saw the sheen of the tall black mirror, and there on the black cushion was a second jewel identical to the one he carried. A Han priest stood like a ghost in a black robe, he watched Kelly approach without movement. Kelly laid the jewel on the cushion beside its twin.

“There it is. I’ve brought it back. I'm sorry I took it. I—well, I acted on a wild impulse.”

The priest picked up the jewel, held it under his chin as if feeling the warmth from the green fire.

“Your impulse has cost fifteen Eartlilives.”

“Fifteen?” faltered Kelly. “There were but twelve—”

“Two hours delay has sent two to the crab warren,” said the Han. “And yourself. Fifteen.”

Kelly said with a shaky bravado, “You’re taking a lot on yourself—these murders—”

“I am not acquainted with your idiom,” said the priest, “but it seems as if you convey a foolish note of menace. What can you few Earth-things do against Great God Han, who has just now taken our planet across the galaxy?”

Kelly said stupidly, “Your god Han— moved the planet?”

“Certainly. He has taken us far and forever distant from Earth to this mellow sun; such is his gratitude for our prayers and for the tribute of the Eye.”

Kelly said with studied carelessness, “You have your jewel back; I don’t see why you’re so indignant—”

The priest said, “Look here.” Kelly followed his gesture, saw a square black hole edged with a coping of polished stone. “This shaft is eighteen miles deep. Every priest of Han descends to the bottom once a week and carries back to the surface a basket of crystallized stellite. On rare occasions the matrix of the Eye is found, and then there is gratification in the city • • • Such a jewel did you steal.”

* Kelly took his eyes away from the shaft. Eighteen miles • • • “I naturally wasn’t aware of the—”

“No matter; the deed is done. And now the planet has been moved, and Earth power is unable to prevent such punishments as we wish to visit upon you.”

Kelly tried to keep his voice firm. “Punish? What do you mean?”

Behind him he heard a rustling, the shuffle of movement. He looked over his shoulder. The black cloaks merged with the drapes of the temple, and the Han faces floated in mid-air.

“You will be killed,” said the priest. Kelly stated into the white face. “If the manner of your going is of any interest to you—” The priest conveyed details which froze Kelly’s flesh, clabbered the moisture in his mouth. “Your death will thereby deter other Earth-things from like crimes.”

Kelly protested in spite of himself. “You have your jewel; there it is • • • If you insist on killing me—kill me, but—”

“Strange,” said the Han priest. “You Earth-things fear pain more than anything else you can conceive. This fear is your deadliest enemy. We Hans now, we fear nothing—” he looked up at the tall black mirror, bowed slightly “—nothing but our Great God Han.”

Kelly stared at the shimmering black surface. “What’s that mirror to do with your God Han?”

“That is no mirror; that is the portal to the place of the Gods, and every seven years a priest goes through to convey the Eye to Han.”

Kelly tried to plumb the dark depth's of the mirror. “What lies beyond? What kind of land?”

The priest made no answer.

Kelly laughed in a shrill voice fie did not recognize. He lurched forward, threw up his fist in a blow which carried every ounce of his strength and weight. He struck the priest at a point where a man’s jaw would be, felt a brittle crunch. The priest spun around, fell in the tangle of his cloak.

Kelly turned on the priests in the nave, and they sighed in fury. Kelly was desperate, fearless now. He laughed again, reached down, scooped both jewels from the cushion. “Great God Han lives behind the mirror, and moves planets for jewels. I have two jewels; maybe Han will move a planet for me • • •”

He jumped close to the black mirror. He put out his hand and felt a soft surface like a curtain of air. He paused in sudden trepidation. Beyond was the unknown • • •

Pushing at him came the first rank of the Han priests. Here was the known.

Kelly could not delay. Death was death. If he died passing through the black curtain, if he suffocated in airless space—it was clean fast death.

He leaned forward, closed his eyes, held his breath, stepped through the curtain.

KELLY had come a tremendous distance. It was a distance not to be reckoned in miles or hours, but in quantities like abstract, irrational ideas.

He opened his eyes. They functioned; he could see. He was not dead ... Or was he? • • • He took a step forward, sensed solidity under his feet. He looked down, saw a glassy black floor where small sparks burst, flickered, died. Constellations? Universes? Or merely—sparks?

He took another step. It might have been a yard, a mile, a light-year; he moved with the floating ease of a man walking in a dream.

He stood on the lip of an amphitheater, a bowl like a lunar crater. He took another step; he stood in the center of the bowl. He halted, fought to convince himself of his consciousness. Blood made a rushing sound as it flowed through his veins. He swayed, might have fallen if gravity had existed to pull him down. But there was no gravity. His feet clung to the surface by some mysterious adhesion beyond his experience. The blood-sound rose and fell in his ears. Blood meant life. He was alive.

He looked in back of him, and in the blurring of his eyes could not distinguish what he saw. He turned, took a step forward—

He was intruding. He felt the sudden irritated attention of gigantic personalities.

He gazed about the glassy floor, and the faintest of watery gray lights seeping down from,, above collected in the concavity where he stood. Space was vast, interminable, without perspective.

Kelly saw the beings he had disturbed— felt rather than saw them: a dozen giant shapes looming above.

One of these shapes formed a thought, and a surge of meaning permeated space, impinged on Kelly’s mind, willy-nilly translating itself into words:

“What is this thing? From whose world did it come?”

“From mine.” This must be Han. Kelly looked from shape to shape, to determine which the god might be.

“Remove it quickly—” and to Kelly’s mind came a jumble of impressions he had no words to express. “We must deal with the matter of • • • Again a quick listing of ideas which refused to translate in Kelly’s mind. He felt Han’s attention focussing on him. He stood transfixed, waiting for the obliteration he knew to be imminent.

But he held the jewels, and their green glow shone up through his fingers. He cried out, “Wait, I came here for a purpose; I want a planet put back where it belongs, and I have jewels to pay—”

He felt the baleful pressure of Han’s will on his mind—increasing, increasing; he groaned in helpless anguish.

“Wait,” came a calm thought, transcendency clear and serene.

“I must destroy it,” Han protested, “It is the enemy of my jewel-senders.”

“Wait,” came from yet another of the shades, and Kelly caught a nuance of antagonism to Han. “We must act judicially.”

“Why are you here?” came the query of the Leader.

Kelly said, “The Han priests are murdering people of my race, ever since the planet we live on was moved. It’s not right.”

“Ah!” came a thought like an exclamation from the Antagonist. '“Han’s jewel-senders do evil and unnatural deeds.”

“A minor matter, a minor matter,” came the restless thought of still another shape. “Han must protect his jewel-senders.”

And* Kelly caught the implication that the jewel-sending was of cardinal importance; that the jewels were vital to the gods.

The Antagonist chose to make an issue of the matter. “The condition of injustice which Han has effected must be abated.” The Leader meditated. And now came a sly thought to Kelly, which he sensed had been channelled to his mind alone. It came from the Antagonist. “Challenge Han to a • • •” The thought could only be translated as “duel”. “I will aid you. Relax your mind.” Kelly, grasping at any straw, loosened his mental fibers, and felt something like a damp shadow entering his brain, absorbing, recording • • • All in an instant. The contact vanished.

KELLY felt the Leader’s mind wavering over in favor of Han. He said hurriedly, improvising as best he could: “Leader, in one of the legends of Earth, a man journeyed to the land of the giants. As they came to kill him, he challenged the foremost to a duel with his life at stake.” “Of three trials ” came a thought. “Of three trials,” added Kelly. “In the story, the man won and was permitted to return to his native land. After this fashion let me duel in three trials with Han.”

The surge of thoughts thickened the air—rancorous contempt from Han, sly encouragement from the Antagonist, amusement from the Leader,

“You invoke a barbaric principle,” said the Leader. “But by a simple yet rigorous logic, it is a just device, and shall be honored. You shall duel Han in three trials.”

“Why waste time ?” inquired Han. “I can powder him to less than the atoms of atoms.”

“No,” said the Leader. “The trial may not be on a basis of sheer potential. You and this man are at odds over an issue which has no fundamental right or wrong. It is the welfare of his people opposed to the welfare of your jewel-senders. Since the issues are equal, there would be no justice in an unequal duel. The trial must be on a basis which will not unwontedly handicap either party.”

“Let a problem be stated,” suggested the Antagonist. “He who first arrives at a solution wins the trial.”

Han was scornfully silent. So the Leader formulated a problem—a terrific statement whose terms were dimensions and quasi-time and a dozen concepts which Kelly’s brain could in no wise grasp. But the Antagonist intervened.

“That is hardly a fair problem, lying as it does entirely out of the man’s experience. Let me formulate a problem.” And he stated a situation which at first startled Kelly, and then brought him hope.

The problem was one he had met a year previously at the station. A system to integrate twenty-five different comuni-cation bands into one channel was under consideration, and it was necessary to thrust a beam of protons past a bank of twenty-five mutually inter-acting magnets and hit a pin-point filter at the far end of the case. The solution was simple enough —a statement of the initial vector in terms of a coordinate equation and a voltage potential—yet the solution had occupied the station calculator for two months. Kelly knew this solution as he knew his own name.

“Hurry!” came the Antagonist’s secret thought.

Kelly blurted out the answer.

There was a wave of astonishment through the group, and he felt their suspicious inspection.

“You are quick indeed,” said the Leader, non-plussed.

“Another problem," called the Antagonist. Once more he brought a question from Kelly's experience, this concerning the behavior of positrons in the secondary layer of a star in a cluster of six, all at specified temperatures and masses. And this time Kelly's mind worked faster. He immediately stated the answer. Still he anticipated Han by mere seconds.

Han protested, “How could this small pink brain move faster than my cosmic consciousness ?”

“How is this?” asked the Leader. "How do you calculate so swiftly?”

Kelly fumbled for ideas, finally strung together a lame statement: “I do not calculate. In my brain is a mass of cells whose molecules form themselves into models of the problems. They move in an instant, the problem is solved, and the solution comes to me.”

Anxiously he waited, but the reply seemed to satisfy the group. These creatures— or gods, if such they were—were they so naive? Only the Antagonist suggested complex motives. Han, Kelly sensed, was old, of great force, of a hard and inflexible nature. The Leader was venerable beyond thought, calm and untroubled as space itself.

“What now?” came from the Antagonist. “Shall there be another problem? Or shall the man be declared the victor?”

Kelly would have been well pleased to let well enough alone, but this evidently did not suit the purposes of the Antagonist; hence his quiet jeer.

“No!” The thoughts of Han roared forth almost like sound. “Because of a ridiculous freak in this creature's brain, must I admit him my superior? I can fling him through a thousand dimensions with a thought, snap him out of existence, out of memory—”

“Perhaps because you are a god,” came the Antagonist's taunt, “and of pure—” another confusing concept, a mixture of energy, divinity, force, intelligence. “The man is but a combination of atoms, and moves through the oxidation of carbon and hydrogen. Perhaps if you were as he, he might face you hand to hand and defeat you.”

A curious tenseness stiffened the mental atmosphere. Han’s thoughts came sluggishly, tinged for the first time with doubt.

“Let that be the third trial" said the Leader composedly. Han gave a mental shrug. One of the towering shadows shrunk, condensed, swirled to a man-like shape, solidified further, at last stood facing Kelly, a thing like a man, glowing with a green phosphorescence like the heart of the Seven-year Eye.

, The Antagonist’s secret thought came to Kelly: “Seize the jewel at the back of the neck.” • • •

KELLY scanned the slowly advancing figure. It was exactly his height and heft, naked, but radiating an inhuman confidence. The face was blurred, fuzzy, and Kelly could never afterward describe the countenance. He tore his gaze away.

“How do we fight?” he demanded, beads of sweat dripping from his body. “Do we set any rules--or no holds barred?”

“Tooth and nail,” came the calm thoughts of the Leader. “Han now has organic sensibilities like yours. If you kill this body, or render it unconscious, you win. If you lose this trial, then we shall decide.”

“Suppose he kills me?” objected Kelly, but no one seemed to heed his protest.

Han came glaring-eyed at him. Kelly took a step backward, jabbed tentatively with his left fist. Han rushed forward. Kelly punched furiously, kneed the on-rushing body, heard it grunt and fall, to leap erect instantly. A tingle of joy ran down Kelly’s spine, and more confidently he stepped forward, lashing out with rights and lefts. Han leapt close and clinched his arms around Kelly’s body. Now he began to squeeze, and Kelly felt a power greater than any man’s in those green-glowing arms.

“The jewel,” came a sly thought. Sparks were exploding in Kelly’s eyes; his ribs creaked. He swung a frenzied hand, clawing- at Han’s neck. He felt a hard protuberance, he dug his nails under, tore the jewel free.

A shrill cry of utmost pain and horror —and the god-man puffed away into black smoke which babbled in a frenzy back and forth through the darkness. It surged around Kelly, and little tendrils of the smoke seemed to pluck at the jewel clenched in his hand. But they had no great force, and Kelly found he could repel the wisps with the power of his own brain.

He suddenly understood the function of the jewel. It was the focus for the god. It centralized the myriad forces. The jewel gone, the god was a welter of conflicting volitions, vagrant impulses.

Kelly felt the Antagonist’s triumphant thoughts. And he himself felt an elation he had never known before. The Leader’s cool comment brought him back to himself:

“You seem to have won the contest.” There was a pause. “In the absence of opposition we will render any requests you may make.” There was no concern in his thoughts for the decentralized Han. The black smoke was dissipating, Han was no more than a memory. “Already you have delayed us long. We have the problem of—” the now familiar confusion of ideas, but this time Kelly understood vaguely. It seemed that there was a vortex of universes which possessed consciousness, as mighty or mightier than these gods, which was driving on a course that would be incommoding. There were qualifications, a host of contributory factors.

“Well,” said Kelly, “I’d like you to move the planet I just came from back to its old orbit around Magra Taratempos. If you know what planet and what star I’m talking about.”

“Yes.” The Leader made a small exertion. “The world you mention moves in its previous orbit.”

“Suppose the Han priests come through the portal and want it moved again?” “The portal no longer exists. It was held open by Han; when Han dissolved, the portal closed ... Is that the total of your desires?”

Kelly’s mind raced, became a turmoil. This was his chance. Wealth, longevity, power, knowledge • • • Somehow thoughts would not form themselves—and there were curses attached to unnatural gifts— “I’d like to get back to Bucktown safely • • •

Kelly found himself in the glare of the outer world. He stood on the hill above Bucktown, and he breathed the salt air of the marshes. Above hung a hot white sun—Magra Taratempos.

He became aware of an object clenched in his hand. It was the jewel he had torn out of Han’s neck. There were two others in his pocket.

Across the city, he saw the light-blue and stainless-steel box of the station. What should he tell Herli and Mapes? Would they believe the truth? He looked at the three jewels. One was for Lynette Mason’s brown young neck. The other two he could sell on Earth • • • Better take it up with Lynette. She’d believe him. She’d listen enthralled while he told her of how he fought Great God Han • • •





